# COVID_PREDICTION
## Intro
During 2020, the number of COVID-19 cases has surged across the state of New York. After strict COVID-19 safety guideline enforcements, the infection rate in NYC gradually decreased, and New York city was starting to open up. The reopening of the New York City has four phases, and in around July 2020, New York was entering phase three of the reopening, where outdoor dining, local gyms, shopping malls and other entertainment facilities were reopened. However, with these facilities opening, the COVID-19 infection rate came up simultaneously. In January 2021, New York City’s restaurant’s indoor dining were forced to close again because of the surging virus. There is clearly a positive correlation between the reopening businesses and the virus infection rate. With different infection rates in different neighborhoods of New York City, it would be interesting to examine how different venues in a neighborhood affects that neighborhood’s infection rate as well as if number of venues can effectively predict the neighborhood’s infection rate. 

## Methodology
After cleaning the data, a data frame consists of neighborhood name, infection rate, neighborhood latitude and neighborhood longitude is created. After requesting nearby venue list of each neighborhood from Foursquare, a categorical dataset is created, where for each neighborhood, its nearby venues are all marked “1” under each corresponding venue name columns. Grouping by the neighborhood, a new final dataset shows the frequency of each venue in each neighborhood, and then our final dataset is ready to be analyzed. First, K-means clustering machine learning method is applied to the dataset, putting all neighborhoods into 5 clusters, and then folium package is used to visualize the labeled neighborhoods in a map. Then, another column is created, giving each neighborhood’s infection rate a label of low, medium, and high level. After splitting the dataset into training and testing sets, the K-NN classification method is applied, with x being the total frequency of restaurants, stores, and gyms in each neighborhood, y being the level of infection rates. After our model is training, it is used to predict the x test set. Then decision tree, support vector machine classification are applied in the same way.

## Results

The accuracy score of Support Vector Machine classification predicting the intensity of COVID infection is around 0.77, which indicates that the model is relatively accurate. This means that given any neighborhood in the New York state, even if there is not enough COVID-19 testing to determine an infection rate, we can still be able to deduce a relatively accurate infection rate by only using the venues inside the neighborhood.


More comprehensive explanation of the project can be found in the Predicting the number of Covid doc, and project code can be found in Covid_Prediction jupyter notebook file. 
